Meeting Siddharth, Wed June 3rd 2020

* The program is feature complete
  All features are implemented: regulation (with multiple transposons), complex transposition model (excision reinsertion etc). 
  The frontend needs to be updated to account for the last features
  
* Output file: pickle file (Python serialized object) with named fields (does it work in R?). 

* Test (Figure 1 from Kofler)
 - small simulation with N=100 (Kofler N=1000), results look similar but so far numbers do not really match (to be checked)

* Great progress in one week (back to the lab 3 days/week; consider coming everyday?)

* What to do next?

The discussion was a bit complicated and went into several directions. In sum: it is important to decide which direction to 
take (what scientific question to ask), and then to discuss how to address it (which simulations to run, which changes in 
the software). 

We need to Distinguish two things that were not very clear before:
   . Migration is the exchange of individuals between several populations that are evolving simultaneously
   . Horizontal transfer is appearance of a single copy in a random individual
   
It is possible to "pretend" to simulate migration by introducing 'made up' individuals with e.g. specific genotypes or
TE counts and introduce them in populations, but this is limited to simulating ad-hoc scenarios. Simulating scenarios can
be useful to understand how things work in controlled cases, but it is limited in terms of inference of how migration works
for several reasons: 
  (i) migration is a random process and the variance in timing and number of introduced individuals is
crucial to undetsrand the dynamics of the invasion wave. In particular, the dynamics in a specific population
can be influenced by recurrent introduction of new migrants.
  (ii) migrants bring several TE copies and potential regulatory sites that are in linkage disequilibrium, which 
can hardly be reproduced accurately when making ad hoc synthetic genotypes.
Simulating the migration process thus needs to rely on a real implementation of population structure and exchange in the
software. Two implementations ideas: 
- Storing a population as a list/tuple/whatever or individuals, and call transposition/reproduction functions independently
on each population. Then simulate a migration stage in which individuals can move across populations. 
- Storing the population as before, and changing the reproduction function to store mating probabilities as a 
matrix of mating pairs, combining fitness and population structure. This would be equivalent to a migration at 
the haploid/gametic stage, which is not a problem in population genetics theory (this just changes the meaning of 
the migration rate by a factor 2). 

Note that scenarios (and not population structure) are really mandatory for simulating experimental evolution, so simulating
scenarios and simulating population structure are two independent "tasks" that cannot be merged. 

We also lengthly discussed on the project to study the interacton between TE families invading simultaneously. Several 
scenarios could be considered : simultaneous HTs, one HT after another, merging between populations carrying different TEs... 

Theory on co-invading TE families is scarce. The only source of theoretical work I know about when several "kinds" of copies are
considered at the same time are Charlesworth 1991 (a set of copies inserted into neutral sites and a set of copies in
selected sites, but they cross-mobilize) and Le Rouzic & Capy 2006 (autonomous and non-autonomous copies, but again there
is a direct interaction). Some theory should be developped (?). 

Considering several TE families in structured populations has alse been discussed. 
